OBSDOCS-1723: Port the "Installing Logging" sections to 5.8 and 6.y docs (#89053)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-logging-clo-gui-install.adoc

. Select *Enable Operator-recommended cluster monitoring on this namespace.*
+
This option sets the `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label in the `Namespace` object. You must select this option to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-logging` namespace.
. For *Update approval* select *Automatic*, then click *Install*.
+
If the approval strategy in the subscription is set to *Automatic*, the update process initiates as soon as a new Operator version is available in the selected channel. If the approval strategy is set to *Manual*, you must manually approve pending updates.

. Click *Install*.

. While the operator installs you can create the service account that will be used by the log collector to collect the logs. 

.. Click the `+` in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Enter the YAML definition for the service account. 
+
.Example `ServiceAccount` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:

>   name: log-collector # <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: logging-collector # <1>
```

  namespace: openshift-logging # <2>
----

> <1> Note the name used for the service account `log-collector` you will need it when creating the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Note the name used for the service account `logging-collector` you will need it when creating the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.
```

kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: log-collector:write-logs
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: logging-collector-logs-writer # <1>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: log-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: log-collector:collect-application
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: collect-application-logs # <2>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: log-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: log-collector:collect-infrastructure
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: collect-infrastructure-logs # <3>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: log-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
----
<1> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to write logs to `LokiStack`
<2> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to collect logs from applications
<3> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to collect logs from infrastructure

. Click the *Create* button.

> . Go to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page. Select the {clo} operator and click the *All instances* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page. Select the  operator and click the *All instances* tab.
. After granting the necessary permissions to the service account, navigate to the *Installed Operators* page. Select the {clo} under the *Provided APIs* find the *ClusterLogForwarder* resource and press *Create Instance*.
```

.. Click the *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Enter the YAML definition for the service account. 
+
.Example `ServiceAccount` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: logging-collector # <1>
  namespace: openshift-logging # <2>
----
<1> Note the name used for the service account `logging-collector` you will need it when creating the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.
<2> Set the namespace to `openshift-logging` as that will be the namespace we will use to deploy `ClusterLogForwarder`.

.. Click the *Create* button.

. Create the `ClusterRoleBinding` objects to grant the necessary permissions to the log collector for accessing the logs that you want to collect and to write the log store, for example `infrastructure` and `application` logs.

.. Click the *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Enter the YAML definition for the `ClusterRoleBinding` resources 
+
.Example `ClusterRoleBinding` resources
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:

>   name: log-collector:write-logs

Reviewer: Just to make it consistent 
```suggestion
  name: logging-collector:write-logs
```

Author: done

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: logging-collector-logs-writer # <1>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: logging-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:

>   name: log-collector:collect-application

Reviewer: Just to make it consistent 
```suggestion
  name: logging-collector:collect-application

```

Author: done

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: collect-application-logs # <2>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: logging-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:

>   name: log-collector:collect-infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: logging-collector:collect-infrastructure
```

Author: done

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: collect-infrastructure-logs # <3>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: logging-collector
  namespace: openshift-logging
----
<1> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to write logs to `LokiStack`
<2> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to collect logs from applications
<3> ClusterRole to allow the log collector to collect logs from infrastructure

.. Click the *Create* button.

. Go to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page. Select the  operator and click the *All instances* tab.

. After granting the necessary permissions to the service account, navigate to the *Installed Operators* page. Select the {clo} under the *Provided APIs* find the *ClusterLogForwarder* resource and click *Create Instance*.

. Select *YAML view*, and then use the following template to create a `ClusterLogForwarder` CR:
+
.Example `ClusterLogForwarder` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging # <1>
spec:
  serviceAccount:

>     name: log-collector # <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: logging-collector # <2>
```

Author: done

+
This option sets the `openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"` label in the `Namespace` object. You must select this option to ensure that cluster monitoring scrapes the `openshift-logging` namespace.

. For *Update approval* select *Automatic*, then click *Install*.
+
If the approval strategy in the subscription is set to *Automatic*, the update process initiates as soon as a new operator version is available in the selected channel. If the approval strategy is set to *Manual*, you must manually approve pending updates.
+
[NOTE]
====
An Operator might display a `Failed` status before the installation completes. If the operator installation completes with an `InstallSucceeded` message, refresh the page.
====

. While the operator installs, create the service account that will be used by the log collector to collect the logs. 

.. Click the *+* in the top right of the screen to access the *Import YAML* page. 

.. Enter the YAML definition for the service account. 
+
.Example `ServiceAccount` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: logging-collector # <1>
  namespace: openshift-logging # <2>
----

> <1> Note the name used for the service account `logging-collector`, you will need it when creating the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource.

Reviewer 2: Same nit as suggested in the other comment.

. Select *YAML view*, and then use the following template to create a `ClusterLogForwarder` CR:
+
.Example `ClusterLogForwarder` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging # <1>
spec:
  serviceAccount:
    name: logging-collector # <2>
  outputs:
  - name: lokistack-out
    type: lokiStack # <3>
    lokiStack:
      target: # <4>
        name: logging-loki 
        namespace: openshift-logging
      authentication:
        token:
          from: serviceAccount
    tls:
      ca:
        key: service-ca.crt
        configMapName: openshift-service-ca.crt
  pipelines:
  - name: infra-app-logs
    inputRefs: # <5>
    - application
    - infrastructure
    outputRefs:
    - lokistack-out
----
<1> You must specify `openshift-logging` as the namespace.
<2> Specify the name of the service account created earlier.
<3> Select the `lokiStack` output type to send logs to the `LokiStack` instance.
<4> Point the `ClusterLogForwarder` to the `LokiStack` instance created earlier.
<5> Select the log output types you want to send to the `LokiStack` instance.

. Click *Create*.

.Verification

> . In the *ClusterLogForwarder* tab you should now see your `ClusterLogForwarder` instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *ClusterLogForwarder* tab verify that you see your `ClusterLogForwarder` instance.
```
